---
title: Hexo. It's Hexo.
date: 2017-06-24 22:40:10
tags: wordpress, hexo, static blogs, js, markdown
---
Before creating this blog, I recalled all of the frustrating experiences I had when trying to get a better performance from WordPress, and if you have ever installed WordPress, you know it's ~~impossible~~ unlikely to be done - unless you decide to remove everything that makes WP WP.

I eventually came to find a blog that at a first look seemed to have been made manually, I mean, literally writing the needed HTML for each page, and including the new post in the menu etc, because, the source code looked so clean and it had no _/cms/source/files/public-files/1984/25/12/images..._ directories being requested as well. That was strange.

After some research, I met the _static blogs_:  they're static web pages generated by frameworks like Hexo (that uses Node.js) which are installed on your pc - you write your posts in Markdown and then "compile" everything to HTML using (in Hexo's case) _hexo generate_. Now all you have to do is upload what was created in your _public_ folder to your online server. [Also...](https://duckduckgo.com?q=hexo framework)

It's quite straightforward, in my opinion. Of course there is some learning curve, but you'll soon forget about that once you realize how fast the loading time of your pages will be. This blog is my ideal of reading experience - no widgets, no ads, big font size and the best part: blazing fast. I decided not to use any JavaScript because it would not be necessary and it could decrease my fast loading powers. No comment section for now - for some reason the blogs I like the most don't have a comment section; it's a much more personal approach, I think. It's true that this can reduce the readers' engagement, but I just like much better to talk/discuss on social media _~ join mastodon, join mastodon ~_.

I feel kind of late for this - Hexo itself has been out there for two-ish years, which is not much, but the idea of having static pages pre-generated is highly empiric, even more if low-speed connections are common among your audience and the only realistic hosting servers' prices are for PHP/MySQL on Apache (I'm talking about shared hosting - it's expensive by here, even though it doesn't deliver much :triumph: or anything :triumph:).

Out of writing your own HTML for every page, a static blog is the best alternative if you're looking for a faster experience and have a "minimum" idea of how to work with JavaScript/Node.js; Wordpress is still the obvious choice for those who just want to install and go (there are avaliable pluggings, of course), but if you have the ability to install some packages here and there, you'll be offered the oportunity to have something much more rational running behind your website/blogs.
